How are un-nominated CPF moneys distributed among beneficiaries?
Un-nominated CPF moneys means the Deceased’s CPF savings where the Deceased did not choose who should receive the moneys. When someone passed away, the Public Trustee's Office (PTO) distributes these savings to the beneficiary.
The distribution rules are different for Muslim and non-Muslim families because they follow different legal systems.
For non-Muslim families
The un-nominated moneys are distributed in accordance with the Intestate Succession Act 1967.
Distribution rules
Situation
Person passed away leaving
How the moneys / estate is shared
1
Spouse, no children, no parents
100% to surviving spouse
2
Spouse and children
50% to surviving spouse, 50% shared equally among children (and/or grandchildren if children are deceased)
3
Children, no spouse
100% shared equally among children (or their children if deceased)
4
Spouse and parents, no children
50% to surviving spouse, 50% shared equally among surviving parents
5
Parents, no spouse, no children
100% shared equally among surviving parents
6
Brothers or sisters, no spouse, no children, no parents
100% shared equally among brothers and sisters (or their children if deceased)
7
Grandparents, no other above beneficiary
100% shared equally among surviving grandparents
8
Uncles and aunts, no other above beneficiary
100% shared equally among surviving uncles and aunts
Example
If someone passed away leaving a wife and 2 children:
Wife receives: 50% of the CPF moneys / estate
Each child receives: 25% of the CPF moneys / estate
You may also visit our Intestacy Calculator to reference who are the potential beneficiary.
For Muslim families
If the Deceased was a Muslim, the distribution follows Islamic inheritance law under the Administration of Muslim Law Act 1966.
The Syariah Court will issue an Inheritance Certificate that lists down who are the beneficiary and how much each person receives.
How to find out your share
Option 1: Use the Online Trial Inheritance Calculator
Thereafter apply for an Inheritance Certificate from the Syariah Court
What to do next
Every family situation is different. Before you make an application with the Public Trustee’s Office, make sure you have all the required documents ready
(what are the documents to be submitted to the Public Trustee).
How to apply for the distribution of un-nominated CPF moneys:
· Visit our e-Services at https://go.gov.sg/pto
· Click on Administration of Deceased’s CPF / Baby Bonus / Edusave / PSEA
· Log in with your Singpass
Need help with the steps? Download the step-by-step guide.
If you need help
Contact the Public Trustee's Office:
Phone: 1800 225 5529 (airtime charges may apply for mobile calls)
Online enquiry: Contact Us @ OneMinLaw at https://go.gov.sg/contactminlaw
[Note] Office hours: Monday to Friday, 8:30 AM to 5:00 PM
